# Linux File System
* hierarchical tree structure
* everything in Linux is file
* 1 root folder and various subfolders under it
* /home: contains home directories of all non-root users
* /root: Root user's home directory is at /root
* /bin: executables for most essential user commands
* /sbin: commands that are system relevant and requires super user permission to execute them (mainly used by admins)
* /lib: essential shared libraries that executables from /bin and /sbin use
* /usr: this was used for users home directories. It also contains /bin, /sbin etc and also contains same executable files as that of root /bin or /sbin. Due to storage limitations it was split to root binary folders and user binary folders previously. **Remember that whenver we use any commands it is mostly executed from user bin folder**
* /usr/local: programs that we install on the computer i.e., 3rd party applications like `docker`, `minikube`, `java` will be installed here and will be available for all users on the computer
* /opt: third-party programs that doesn't split their files in different directories will be installed here
* /boot: contains files required for booting

> Note: All the above directories are in read-only mode

* /etc: place where configuration for system-wide applications is stored
* /dev: location of device files - like webcam, keyboard, hard drive etc. Apps and drivers will access this, not the user. All files that the system needs to interact with the devices resides here
* /var: contains files to which the system writes data during the course of its operation
* /var/cache: contains cached data from application programs
* /tmp: temporary resources required for some process, kept here temporarily
* /media: contains subdirectories, where removable media devices inserted into the computer are mounted. E.g. when we insert CD a directory will automatically be created and we can access the contents of the CD inside the directory
* /mnt: temporary mount points. Sys admins mounted temporary file systems here

> Remeber: usually we don't have to interact with these root folders. OS does for us. If we are installing apps, package manager will handle this.

> Note : Windows OS have multiple root folders 

* __Hidden Files:__
	* Is primarily used to help prevent important data from being accidently deleted
	* Automatically generated by programs or OS
	* file name starts with dot 
	* in `UNIX` also called **`dotfiles`** 

# Command Line Interface - CLI
### GUI vs CLI
* __GUI:__ Graphical User Interface, where we have __graphical elements that we can interact with__, like buttons using mouse clicks.
* __CLI:__ Command Line Interface, where users __type in commands__ and see the results printed on the screen. __Terminal__, a GUI window that helps us takes commands and shows output.

> __Extra Points:__
	> * __user_name@computer_name: ~\$__
	> : is a seperator
	> ~ is shortcut to home directory
	> $ represents regular user
	> \# represents root user

### Basic Linux Commands
* helps us work with the file system
	* create folders 
	* list files in directory
	* rename and remove files
* display OS infos etc.

__Commands:__
1. __pwd :__ shows current directory
2. __ls :__ list files/directories in current directory
3. __cd [dir name] :__ change directory to [dir]
4. __cd [absolute path] :__ move to any location by providing the full path
5. __mkdir :__ make directory
6. __touch [file_name] :__ create a file with the name [file_name]
7. __rm [file_name] :__ delete file with the name [file_name]
8. __rm -r [dir_name] :__ delete a non-empty directory and all the files within it
9. __rm -d [dir_name] :__ delete an empty directory
10. __mv [filename] [new_filename] :__ rename the file to a new filename
11. __cp -r [dirname] [new_dirname] :__ copy dirname to new_dirname
12. __cp [filename] [new_filename] :__ copy filename to new_filename
13. __ls -R [dirname] :__ list all the files of directory and subdirectory also
14. __history__ : gives a list of all past commands typed in the current terminal session
15. __ls -a__ : show all directories including hidden
16. __cat [filename] :__ display the file content
17. __sudo__: allows regular users to run programs with the security privileges of the superuser or root
18. __su - [user_name] :__ change to the specified user name

__Key Combinations__:
1. __ctrl+r__ : search history
2. __ctrl+c__ : stop current command
3. __ctrl+shift+v__ : paste copied text into terminal

### Why use CLI over GUI?
1. work more efficient
	* instead of clicking through file system, work in 1 terminal
2. easier for bulk operations
3. CLI is more powerful

> __Remember:__
> * Display OS Information: `uname -a`
> * Display OS Release: `cat /etc/os-release`
> * Display CPU Information: `lscpu`
> * Display Memory Information: `lsmem`